All right.
The parcel that we previously
accept system
So we did not
still
want to make sure
without
actually
creative.
We're able to maintain 200 ft of house
and
that's a confir
that's changed.
difference.
So although there are some similarities
to the request
and that the application
um I recognize that statute
if you elect not to the same
the same application period that's your
discretion to do so but again we
But it's not because it's a larger one
now
good addition size
now the issue of subfort
it's a it's different application
basically the application employers.
Um so again that's up to you but the
background of this application is pretty
much the same. We are creating a new
record here so I'm going through it very
briefly. Um my client again acquired two
properties the house.
Um, as you may recall,
there's
the chance not if we were able to fall
into the section 4.12
and if we were able to prove that
in 1950
and then health code
If you recall that we ran into the town
has no record of
fire
to what
prior to6
Um, so we're not
aside
and
we see tonight
regul
So, but that's that's for another day.
We are significantly.
So,
so
in response to comments you
again.
>> This is
doesn't
last meeting that I
there was some about the
the um
being
and also
it was just too small. So what we've
done is again by jogging that linear
road we are able to be 200 ft of the
rear line and actually now we're able to
increase the front proposed line rather
significantly as well. Um presently that
We are able to get that.
It's still not
a lot closer.
It's actually about
18,000.
We're able to lose that 31
66% increase
again
with your regulations. And if you
compare it to the last
significant
additional
move towards
And if you recall
here
two parts
will still be
closer to
the house
will still
the cases
that I have spoken to in the past
and in order to address that I would
feel that it is either
I put it on the record, but I'll put it
on the record again.
38 silver
31,000
at 20%
18,000
at 9,000
and at 80%
pretty directly across
across the street
and those range size of 29,64,4
So I draw your attention because
in fact it's not
That was the same
overall
was
800.
So I can assure you that based on
discussions that are
sufficient size area and terrain in
order to support
it just
pushing as far as we can to make it
more.
Again, we are significantly better than
what it exist
and
I'm sorry 137
um if you have
questions
about
But the
Yeah.
Facebook
considerations.
They were here presentation then it was
continued
Right.
>> There's the the one
Yeah.
>> This is
My question
is there
So, so right now
a which is the existing line proposed
70,85.
>> So there is I guess still a little bit
of land in there that we would have to
So I mean in theory
>> too
So, so
would you have any objections
to
I think the numbers a little better.
Stop. Is there something?
>> So, so to answer your question, could we
make the bigger either
just
so that that number be 66% bigger than
it is now being 70% bigger and the house
probably just wouldn't be that simple
getting closer anyway. Okay.
I don't think
But if it's
again,
if you want us to look at
extend
something. We could probably do that and
maybe
but it would be an adjustment most
likely to
>> right.
Yeah, we probably also
See the reserve a little bit lighter
to propose for a better
We've been told from the engineer that
discuss
than that.
They need to go to
So, so
it doesn't have to be that shape has
intended to be
cancer
diagnosing,
you know, build a house there
to help us with things. My husband
bought property when he was 25 years
old.
loves the lake. We take our grandkids
there. We wanted our children to be able
to be close because even though I said
maybe we should downsize considering
he's not
so
young.
And so that's what
we have
to say. This is not the son that's
no but this is important.
This is important and your time is
important.
But
too.
She got a different size.
No,
>> because because
everybody in this room
good and some things are bad, right?
substitution.
This is substation.
I did have a case myself.
That's totally accurate. The only thing
that
you can determine based on the size and
the frontage and the fact
is now
there are a number of but if you
determine that it's substant
There is still a definition.
It's just but it's not
Maybe that's
>> everything you're going to say has to
be.
the 87
my question now is lots
of when I was ask
>> correct we cannot get any more
to the new proposed than what we show
here because now we have you look out at
our table
we have exactly
we can't go
but we could
do something with this and make more
to give you a little bit more but to
give you more
felt it was necessary to get closer
because we have you know just under
10,000 square feet still access their
house which
I've explained practically why they
don't get it
but if you think just the number
to get closer even further
to get
That's the only
partial The language is
Chris
Yeah. Yes.
This is still
to develop
which is why I wanted to make sure I got
on the record.
I would say significantly. take through
that. So if you have high
the property
we are now increasing 31,2
and the frontage to 119
and the previous application had the
square footage of the law and 25,18
square feet. So that's an increase over
the previous application of 24%.
And in the frontage we had
totally
Yeah.
I did.
>> And I put it right in the computer and
said, "What is the percentage increase
from this to this?"
>> Remarkable.
All the setbacks,
side
on your side. You're safe.
Yeah.
I would ask you again.
Yes.
This is eight.
16 February.
Hey you guys, I got no audio coming
through.
>> We fixed it.
>> All right. Do you have anything to
contribute to our meeting? That's a good
thing.
>> Maybe try chatting with him. Is there a
chat feature?
>> I can hear you now.
>> We hear you as well. Were did you which
which item would you wish to comment on?
>> No, I'm sorry. I came in late. I I
thought we were doing a review of the
POC tonight on the agenda.
>> No, that was last night at the planning
and zoning commission meeting.
>> This is this is
>> I'm sorry.
>> Board of Appeals meeting.
>> Okay. Sorry. Came into the wrong
meeting. Okay,
>> I'll sign off. Sorry about that.
>> No problem.
>> All right.
So, with our uh new business, uh we're
going to deliberate and act on
application 261
ZBA
seeking a variance. Uh applicant is
seeking relief from sections 11.2 two of
the Andover zoning regulations to reduce
the nonconformities of the currently
vacant parcel on Bosola Road
MBLU
CB. The applicant's intention is to
adjust the property lines between the
vacant property and 52 Moloto Road, both
owned or co-owned by the applicant. The
proposed additional land added to the
vacant parcel is intended to support the
construction of a single family dwelling
on the vacant parcel.
So with that uh we go on to adoption of
the January 21
we have to discuss that. Oh I thought we
okay
let's discuss Oh deliberation. Sorry I'm
jumping. Okay. some deliberation on the
proposal before us.
>> So you can discuss some
>> so I think it was based on your point.
So you've I think said that there's two
things that are needing to be so
substantial improvement. That's the
first thing. Yes.
>> Substantial substantial change. Yeah.
>> Okay. So if we agreed that it's a
substantial change then we move on to
grant the variance or not. I I would say
that I think it is a substantial change
from the previous um application.
Uh I think um also I mean it's really um
interesting to note that uh even the
zoning regulations have changed as well
since then to include uh the element of
frontage. Um, but I think uh if if we'll
remember collectively as a group, one of
the main things that I think had people
kind of a little hesitant to approve the
last application was the fact that the
septic was going to be on a on an
easement. And I think that was one of my
main reservations, even though
ultimately in the last one, I don't know
if I'm allowed to say, but I I voted in
favor of
um accepting that application. But I do
remember like that was my main
hesitation with the original application
as well. uh mostly geared toward like
what happens if someone uh were to
eventually sell that parcel and how do
you rectify any issues that might uh
take place in the future regarding a
septic which and then I also feel that
we're to understand that septic is not
really our purview as long as it's
approved by the health um
sanitarian department
>> that was that was my concern also uh at
the last man was was the septic
that's not our concern or whatever.
>> It's not that's not approved by by
>> the sanitation department
>> and and I think that the easement issue
has been completely resolved with the
new application.
I'm going to look at the the sun. I I
think that was a a pretty good effort in
increasing the size of the uh
24. It's almost a 25%
increases.
>> Yeah,
>> not bad.
>> I agree. I think 24% is a substantial
increase
>> and I and I'm more comfortable knowing
which neighbors
I I didn't see that at the less medium I
>> and also the comparative like the
comparisons to other lots that are
similar in size in the immediate
vicinity as well. Um I think they're
making a substantial effort the kind of
match.
So someone like do you want to discuss
this anymore? I'm very fortunate to have
a double lot when I purchased it. It's
only 78 of an acre. So I I think we need
to agree or or find out if there's
agreement that this is a substantial
change from the original proposal before
we proceed. Right.
>> Yes. So yes. Yes. Yes. Because if we
don't agree on that then then the next
is so so I think it's a substantial
difference. Would you like to make do we
make a motion? I don't think
>> you don't need you wouldn't need a
motion. Just if that's your that's your
Yeah. Exactly. Go around the table. see
if how everybody feels about that and
then the next step would be a motion to
approve the ver itself.
>> Oh okay.
I agree there substantial difference
from the previous application. I do.
>> Okay. What do you think?
>> I think so too.
>> Yeah.
>> I agree there 24% is substantial. Okay.
I'll go on that page. So that's that's
one. So we we agree that it's this this
proposal represents a substantial
difference from the original proposal.
Okay. So part two
>> so let's look at the motion.
So we have two draft motions.
Um so we can oh well a few choices here.
we can continue deliberations to the
next regular meeting and we have 65 days
from the close of the hearing to decide
this matter. Um if anyone has an
appetite for that um uh as far as
motions uh we can approve with
conditions. Uh does do people have this?
Uh we can move that the application 261
ZBA Christine Gomes be approved with
conditions as the proposal provides for
a reduction in nonconformities
associated with partial parcel MBLU
ZB and overland records volume 147 page
specifically the board varies section
11.2 2 Andover Lake District lot area
from 60,000 square ft to 31,210
square ft and lot frontage from 200
square ft to 119.09 09 ft. Um, 200 ft. I
thought I said square feet. Sorry. To
109 ft as depicted in the boundary
reconfiguration plan prepared by Rob
Hellstrom Land Surveying LLC debate
dated December 4th, 2025,
revised February 16th, 2026.
So the conditions uh the boundary
reconfiguration plan prepared by
Robstrom Land Survey LLC dated December
4th, 2025 revised February 16th, 2026
shall be filled with Andover Town Clerk.
compliance with the plans submitted in
support of the application and any
statements made by the applicant in its
application materials and presentations
to the board.
Uh alternately alternatively we have a
possibility of a motion to deny uh move.
>> You don't have to read. No
>> I don't. Okay. Are you making the motion
to approve? You read the whole
>> Do we have an opportunity now to present
any conditions to approve?
>> You can you can do additional ones if
you wish. You could propose them
organizing the first thing I suppose if
someone to I believe the chair made this
motion.
>> Correct.
>> Uh no, I thought I was reading lots of
people. No, I actually didn't make a
motion. So anyone could can move per
this and then you can suggest additional
motion to approve or deny.
What?
>> What? Fred just read.
>> You can. These are drafts. This is a
draft.
>> This is the board's motion.
>> You So we can modify the
>> any way you want. Any way you want.
>> So So I I'll make this motion and then
we can modify it. Right.
>> So you're making a motion to approve and
then we can discuss.
>> No. No.
>> So that's not that's not how it's done.
Correct. It's you you would make
modifications and and then move or or
how
>> well
one board member can move what's printed
here and that's
>> or another board member can move what's
printed here and and right from the
get-go add something. So if you want to
make the motion and add some other
condition that's not here, you can do
that or Joan can make the motion. It
could be second and we could move to
amend it to add another condition on the
field is wonderful.
>> Okay. With regard to conditions, what
are people thinking?
>> Um
the house is a sold on spec. The new
house is sold on spec.
Yeah.
>> The barriers. That's not the the board
the board can't condition. Well,
actually you know land use commission
can condition on on ownership or sale or
purchase. Um the the the various will
run with the land.
>> So the state of view what their
intention is but if god forbid something
changes tomorrow they could sell the lot
and we can't
I don't I can't think of any conditions
that
>> so does her your motion still stands
right? Yes, you made your motion.
>> I will second the motion to approve the
variances as as per this draft.
>> Okay. So, we have a second.
>> You may discuss questions about that.
>> I I'm not clear on what sort of
conditions would be proposed. Well, for
example, to add on some square footage
to the lot from lot A that that you and
I both brought up, it is slightly
different.
>> Understanding you're still going to have
a nonconforming lot and parcel B. So,
>> yeah,
>> to increase
>> right to to increase the size of lots
>> A not conforming like the rest of the
>> we can make A non-conforming. We we have
we can make B more conforming. We can
propose to make B more conforming with
regard to square books.
>> So, I'm going to say I don't know if
everybody else went and looked at the
properties.
>> I saw them and I know exactly what
they're talking about because
>> I've been through
it. Yeah, it drops right down. And I
mean, it'll maybe look nicer on paper,
but it isn't going to
>> Okay. It's probably not going to change
what either owner is going to do to the
>> land because it just it's just woods
that are kind of steep.
>> Okay. So that I'm not sure it's worth
>> you know
>> I don't think it uh benefits the
board uh or the town like in any way
or I I think it's completely neutral
point um whether there's a 10,000 foot
uh 10,000 square foot difference that is
the handoff between this proposal with A
versus B.
>> Oh, I see this as as a possible burden
on on the the land owners to have to go
and revise it. Financial burn
for what game,
>> right?
>> Yeah. Cisco
>> I I think it's a neutral I think it's a
a mood. Yeah. Um my contribution to the
total discussion here would be that uh I
was by the end of the last presentation
uh it it took some convincing but I was
ready to approve the last variance. I
think this is substantially more um
compliant with um
what the town set yeah with the zoning
regulations than what was originally
proposed.
So
okay. So any other discussion we want to
have about this?
All right. So we have a motion and we've
seconded it. Right. Yeah. So, let's go
forward. All in favor?
>> I
Okay.
>> Thank you very much for your time and
consideration.
>> Okay.
>> Appreciate it. Thank you.
>> I'm just going to say I live in a lake,
too, and they're carrying me out.
>> I bought that house when I was 23.
We end up hard to think is from the
lake.
>> Now the grandkids think they get like
>> that's papa police.
>> We live very close to the lake, not at
the lake. And we're just watching for
when one of you guys leaves.
>> Y
guys, thank you. Congratulations.
>> Have a good night everybody.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay. Good night.
So well the pretty u riser will fill you
in. You'll be getting some
correspondence from me and you'll be
having come here to the town hall and
do some filing
>> right has to be found with the town land
records that the tree riser knows all.
>> Thank you.
>> Good luck.
>> Good job guys. Yeah,
>> we're set to move on to the next parts.
>> Yep.
>> Moving along to item number six,
adoption of the January 21 minutes.
>> So, have you got a chance to look at
those and
so
again?
>> Okay. Well, I I'll make a motion that we
we approve those minutes.
We can do
>> no wea.
>> Yeah.
>> See who wasted orange.
>> We approve for putting the February
third unit as 6A.
>> Okay. So I move that we approve the
February the 3rd minute. Um we'll get
through it real quick. Okay.
>> Yeah. I second that.
>> Okay. M seconds. All in favor? I had all
of you were here.
>> So,
>> wait, wait. No, you have to have been
here to
>> Well, either that you would have to
listen to the uh
>> for the minutes.
>> Yes.
>> Actually, not
read the minutes.
>> Yeah. A lot of people say that, but what
what your vote when you approve minutes,
you're simply voting that you accept
what the secretary proposed.
>> Yeah. dirty.
>> You It'd be nice if you were there, but
you you you're also allowed to just say,
"I trust the secretary. I'm sure they're
right."
>> Yeah, that's why I wanted to look
through.
>> All right.
>> Okay. So, we had all in favor on
February 3rd minutes.
>> Did you do the January 21st?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, now that's that's coming.
>> Okay. Now, we move to 6A. Um
the uh
>> No, vice versa.
>> Oh. Oh, January. Oh, okay. So, we just
approved the January 21, right?
>> Okay. Sorry about that.
>> Um, okay. So, next 6A is the February
3rd. So,
>> and I'll move to approve the House to
February 3rd minutes into the
>> Do we have a second on that?
>> Second.
>> Okay. Joan seconds. Uh, all in favor? I
>> Okay, that was unanimous.
>> Board discussion. Oh, alternate vacancy.
Um, so Le, how do we how do we go about
that? We have
>> Well, this is this is just discussion
purposes right now. I sent you guys an
email to explain what was going on. Um,
the board by state law, you're supposed
to have five regular members and three
alternates.
The board has been running with only two
Um,
there is some question and town clerk
and I have been trying to figure out
exactly how that came to be.
>> Well, you you should have an ordinance
reading.
>> Yeah. And we have an ordinance telling
Hello.
>> And I gave you guys a copy of of the uh
it's actually in the charter, but the
charter. Okay. Right.
It's in the charter how how vacancies
are filled.
So essentially
the charter tells us that
the town clerk has to be notified
and the
chair of the board notifies the
major political parties and the public
of this vacancy and solicits
interest applications whatever in
filling the vacancy.
Um the board would then interview these
people and appoint somebody
>> the board appoints the board. Yep. The
vacancy is filled to the the effective
agency. So appoint this person to fill
any vacancy. It's in the charter. So um
you would interview get bring people in
interview and um you have to respect the
minority representation but you would
appoint somebody
for the alternate position.
Um,
and that person would serve
until the t the term expires
until the vacant the vacant person's
term expires. Does that make sense?
>> Yes. Right.
>> We have not come to an answer as to who
left the board and when their expires.
I suspect that this vacancy has been
around so long that that person's term
has expired.
In which case, I don't know what we're
going to do.
>> But
I hope to come to you with an answer at
some point.
>> Okay.
>> If that's the case.
>> So now we have
>> we have you have a total of four and
two.
>> No, we have five regular members and two
alternatives. Okay. And we need five
members and three alters.
>> And that's in the charter, too.
>> That's that is in the charter, too.
Well, stay well. Well,
>> it's in the charter until the next
election.
>> That may be that may be
>> What are your what are the terms? Are
they four year terms?
>> Four year terms.
>> You see, that's why you don't know if
it's an next election or is it two
elections from
>> Are they all in the same are position?
They're they're two years off. And can
you explain the minority representation
rule?
>> There has to be somebody from the
minority party that rep uh the board
can't be all one party.
>> Well, I'm thinking of dropping my
affiliation.
>> That's okay. If you drop your
affiliation, you can be counted as
either. It's easier to get elected if
you get a um not you don't have to be
affiliated but if you just get um talk
to leaders one of the parties and have
them u
if you're not affiliated and you're
endorsed by one of the major parties you
get counted as that party except rep
>> that party did can I run independent
>> you can you can it's a pain Joe because
you have to go get paperwork from the
secretary to stay and you have to get
signatures. It's better if you get
endorsement
>> regardless of your feelings about the
party if you get endorsement
make your life kind of irrelevant to
what we're
>> Yeah. I just understand better. So
>> I heard you say it and I
>> Well, no.
>> Yeah.
>> Anyway, right now
>> So right now I don't I don't have enough
information to
>> Yeah.
>> adequately inform the board of path
forward.
>> So question then. So, it's up it's up to
the chair of the board to make that
announce well to notify the town clerk
and the public.
>> Yep.
>> So, if we don't know the answer to that,
shouldn't we not?
>> Well, I'm going to wait until I hear
from Wayne.
>> Yeah. Okay. All right. I'm going to let
him start.
>> We should be consulting attorney Brance
or
>> that's Brian O'Brien. I'll be probably
consulting attorney over.
So once Wayne tells me what the deal is,
then I'll
>> then you go ahead.
>> If we can't figure out who's missing and
when their term expire if we can figure
that out and we have an expiration date,
then we're just going to follow this way
presented.
>> Um because we had we had a couple people
who just stopped showing up. We had Elo
and
>> I was hoping Bill would be here tonight.
>> Yeah, Bill. Bill is the probably the one
that knows the answers to the question.
>> Yeah,
>> with Elo and some other some guy who I
never knew.
>> Bill knew what he was doing when he
stepped down from CH.
>> Anyway, that's it.
>> Don't want to miss this.
>> Right now, it's just discussion. Um,
friend, you just uh
>> So, so I I guess hypothetically we're
looking for another alternate.
>> Yeah. Yes. Kind of.
>> And if I decide that this is
interfering with my life, you might be
looking for two.
>> Okay.
>> Well, don't do that to us.
>> I was just going to say no to that
tonight. I mean,
>> I know
the you know, I happen to be off work
until the 30th, so I don't normally I
normally get up 3 3 4:00 in the morning.
uh which it makes this a problem for my
lifestyle.
>> Okay.
>> And we might actually I I was talking to
Bill about this yesterday.
Um Julia Heil has a conflict with this
and so we might not actually have
Julia's services uh very often or at
all.
>> She's an alternative.
>> Julie is a real Julia's on
>> Yeah, Julia's on the floor.
She has a long-standing conflict on
Thursday nights. I don't know why she
ran this and
>> Wednesday whatever she has she has a
long-standing conflict with our she ran
and got on here but she's had that
conflict. So we may not see her very
often in so I checked that before and
said
>> yeah but Julia didn't. So here we are.
Democrats don't
know that he was willing to run for the
alternative.
Will you do it?
All right.
>> That's how you get roped into this
stuff. But knowing that I had to be
here, I'm here.
>> Yeah. If I had to, you know, and notice
saying it.
>> Well, we're we're happy to have you.
>> Yeah. Yeah. because at best it's having
five people to hear these things is
>> really I think it's it's important.
>> Well, especially it takes four
affirmative votes.
>> Yeah.
>> So there's only four people here
>> and it's got to be
a lot of a lot of applicants if they see
only four members they'll ask you they
don't even want to want you to vote
because they they know that then they
can't afford to lose even one person.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So it's in their best
interest to ask for an extension.
>> So as long as you know they don't need
it and you let me know.
>> Yeah. Unfortunately, we don't meet every
month. So
>> that's why that's my beginning.
>> There's nothing on the agenda for for
next month as of
>> I'm also on the board of library and the
ancient burial ground. I'm running I'm
the one running the community garden.
Oh, look at that. Okay. So So that's it.
That's all I have to say on on that.
>> All right. Well, thank you everybody.
So, uh motion to adjurnn. Second.
>> Okay. I guess I made the motion to
adjourn and I in favor we all
thank you for coming out everybody. You